ELEVEN STORIES BY PREMCHAND

Catastrophe
Vidhwans

In Banaras District there is a village called Bira in which an old, childless
widow used to live. She was a Gond woman named Bhungi and she didn't
own either a scrap of land or a house to live in. Her only source of livelihood
was a parching oven. The village folk customarily have one meal a day of
parched grains, so there was always a crowd around Bhungi's oven.
Whatever grain she was paid for parching she would grind or fry and eat it.
She slept in a corner of the same little shack that sheltered the oven. As soon
as it was light she'd get up and go out to gather dry leaves from all around to
make her fire. She would stack the leaves right next to the oven, and after
twelve, light the fire. But on the days when she had to parch grain for Pandit
Udaybhan Pandey, the owner of the village, she went to bed hungry. She
was obliged to work without pay for Pandit Udaybhan Pandey She also had
to fetch water for his house. And, for this reason, from time to time the oven
was not lit. She lived in the Pandit's village, therefore he had full authority to
make her do any sort of odd job. In his opinion if she received food for
working from him, how could it be considered as work done without pay?
He was doing her a favour, in fact, by letting her live in the village at all.

It was spring, a day on which the fresh grain was fried and eaten and given
as a gift. No fire was lit in the houses Bhungi's oven was being put to good
use today. There was a crowd worthy of a village fair around her. She had
scarcely opportunity to draw a breath. Because of the customer's impatience,
squabbles kept breaking out. Then two servants arrived, each carrying a
heaped basket of grain from Pandit Udaybhan with the order to parch it right
away. When Bhungi saw the two baskets she was alarmed. It was already
after twelve and even by sunset, she would not have time to parch so much
grain. Now she would have to stay at the oven parching until after dark for
no payment. In despair she took the two baskets. One of the flunkeys said
menacingly, ‘Don't waste any time or you'll be sorry.
With this command the servants went away and Bhungi began to parch the
grain. It's no laughing matter to parch a whole maund of grain. She had to
Keep stopping from the parching in order to keep the oven fire going. So by
sundown not even half the work was done. She was afraid Panditji's men
would be coming. She began to move her hands all the more frantically.

Soon the servants returned and said, "Well, is the grain parched?’
Feeling bold, Bhungi said, ‘Can't you see? I'm parching it now. '

‘The whole day's gone and you haven't finished any more grain than this!
Have you been roasting it or spoiling it? This is completely uncooked!
How's it going to be used for food? It's the ruin of us! You’ll see what
Panditji does to you for this.’

The result was that that night the oven was dug up and Bhungi was left
without a means of livelihood.

Bhungi now had no means of support. The villagers suffered a good deal
too from the destruction of the oven. In many houses even at noon, cooked
cereal was no longer available. People went to Panditji and asked him to
give the order for the old woman's oven to be rebuilt and the fire once more
lighted, but he paid no attention to them. He could not suffer a loss of face.
A few people who wished her well urged her to move to another village. But
her heart would not accept this suggestion. She had spent her fifty miserable
years in this village and she loved every leaf on every tree. Here she had
known the sorrows and pleasures of life; she could not give it up now in the
last days. The very idea of moving distressed her. Sorrow in this village was
preferable to happiness in another.

A month went by. Very early one morning Pandit Udaybhan, taking his
little band of servants with him, went out to collect his rents. Now when he
looked toward the old woman's oven he fell into a violent rage: it was being
made again. Bhungi was energetically rebuilding it with balls of clay Most
likely she'd spent the night at this work and wanted to finish it before the sun
was high. She knew that she was going against the Pandit's wishes, but she
hoped that he had forgotten his anger by then. But alas, the poor creature had
gown old without growing wise.

Suddenly Panditji shouted, "By whose order?’
Bewildered, Bhungi saw that he was standing before her.

He demanded once again, 'By whose order are you building it?’ In a flight
she said, 'Everybody said I should build it and so I'm building it.’

‘T'll have it smashed again. "With this he kicked the oven. The wet clay
collapsed in a heap. He kicked at the trough again but she ran in front of it
and took the kick in her side. Rubbing her ribs she said, Maharaj, you're not
afraid of anybody but you ought to fear God. What good does it do you to
ruin me like this! Do you think gold is going to grow out of this small piece
of land! For your own good, I'm telling you, don't torment poor people, don't
be the death of me.

"You're not going to build any oven here again.

‘If I don't how am I going to be able to eat!’

‘I'm not responsible for your belly.’

‘But if I do nothing except chores for you where will I go for food!’
‘If you’re going to stay in the village you'll have to do my chores.

‘T'll do them when I've built my over?. I can't do your work just for the
sake of staying in the village.

‘Then don't, just get out of the village.

‘How can I! I've grown old in this hut. My in-laws and their grandparents
lived in this same hut. Except for Yama, king of death, nobody's going to
force me out of it now.

‘Excellent, now you're quoting Scripture!’ Pandit Udaybhan said. 'If you'd
worked hard I might have let you stay, but after this I won't rest until I've
had you thrown out. “To his attendants he said, 'Go get a pile of leaves right
away and set fire to the whole thing; we'll show her how to make an oven.

In a moment there was a tremendous racket. The names leapt towards the
sky, the blaze spread wildly in all directions till the villagers came clustering
around this mountain of fire. Hopelessly, Bhungi stood by her oven
watching the conflagration. Suddenly, with a violent dash, she hurled herself
into the names. They came running from everywhere but no one had the
courage to go into the mouth of the blaze. In a matter of seconds her
withered body was completely consumed.

At that moment the wind rose with a gust. The liberated flames began to
race toward the east. There were some peasants’ huts near the oven which
were engulfed by the fierce flames. Fed in this way, the blaze spread even
further. Panditji's barn was in its path and it pounced upon it. By now the
whole village was in a panic. They began to band together to put out the fire
but the sprinkle of water acted like oil on it and the flames kept mounting
higher. Pandit Udaybhan's splendid mansion was swallowed up; while he
watched, it tossed like a ship amid wild waves and disappeared in the sea of
fire. The sound of lamentation that broke out amidst the ashes was even
more pitiful than Bhungi's grievous cries.

Jurmana

Munshi Khairat Ali Khan was the inspector of Sanitation and hundreds of
sweeper women depended on him. He was good-hearted and well thought
of--not the sort who cut their pay, scolded them or fined them. But he went
on regularly rebuking and punishing Alarakkhi. She was not a shirker, nor
saucy or slovenly; she was also not at all bad-looking. During these chilly
days she would be out with her broom before it was light and go on
assiduously sweeping the road until nine. But all the same, she would be
penalized. Huseni, her husband, would help her with the work too when he
found the chance, but it was in Alarakkhi's fate that she was going to be
fined. For others pay-day was an occasion to celebrate, for Alarakkhi it was
a time to weep. On that day it was as though her heart had broken. Who
could tell how much would be deducted! Like students awaiting the results
of their examinations, over and over again she would speculate on the
amount of the deduction.

Whenever she got so tired that she'd sit down a moment to catch her
breath, precisely then the Inspector would arrive riding in his ekka. No
matter how much she'd say, ‘Please, Excellency, I’ll go back to work again,’
he would jot her name down in his book without listening. A few days later
the very same thing would happen again. If she bought a few cents worth of
candy from the sweets-vendor and started to eat it, just at that moment the
Inspector would drop on her from the devil knew where and once more write
her name down in his book. Where could he have been hiding? The minute
she began to rest the least bit he was upon her like an evil spirit. If he wrote
her name down on only two days, how much would the penalty be then! God
knew. More than eight annas? If only it weren't a whole rupee! With her
head bowed she'd go to collect her pay and find even more deducted than
she'd estimated. Taking her money with trembling hands she'd go home, her
eyes full of tears. There was no one to turn to, no one who'd listen.

Today was pay-day again. The past month her unweaned daughter had
suffered from coughing and fever. The weather had been exceptionally cold.
Partly because of the cold, partly because of the little girl's crying she was
Kept awake the whole night. Several times she'd come to work late. Khan
Sahib had noted down her name, and this time she would be fined half her
pay. It was impossible to say how much might be deducted. Early in the
morning she picked up the baby, took her broom and went to the street. But
the naughty creature wouldn't let herself be put down. Time after time
Alarakkhi would threaten her with the arrival of the Inspector. "He's on his
way and he'll beat me and as for you, he'll cut off your nose and ears! 'The
child was willing to sacrifice her nose and ears but not to be put down. At
last, when Alarakkhi had failed to get rid of her with threats and coaxing
alike, she set her down and left her crying and wailing while she started to
sweep. But the little wretch wouldn't sit in one place to cry her heart out; she
crawled after her mother time and time again, caught her sari, clung to her
legs, then wallowed around on the ground and a moment later sat up to start
crying again.

‘Shut up!’ Alarakkhi said, brandishing the broom. ‘Tf you don't, I'll hit you
with the broom and that'll be the end of you. That bastard of an Inspector's
going to show up at any moment.'

She had hardly got the words out of her mouth when inspector Khairat Ali
Khan dismounted from his bicycle directly in front of her. She turned pale,
her heart began to thump. 'Oh God, may my head fall off if he heard me!
Right in front of me and I didn't see him. Who could tell he'd come on his
bicycle today? He's always come in his ekka. “The blood froze in her veins,
she stood holding the broom as though paralyzed.

Angrily the Inspector said, ‘Why do you drag the kid after you to work!
Why didn't you leave it at home!’

‘She's sick, Excellency’ Alarakkhi said timidly. "Who's at home to leave her
with!"

“What's the matter with her?’

‘She has a fever, Huzoor.’

‘And you make her cry by leaving her? Don't you care if she lives?
"How can I do my work if I carry her?’

"Why don't you ask for leave!’

‘If my pay is cut, Huzoor, what will we have to live on?’

‘Pick her up and take her home. When Huseni comes back send him here
to finish the sweeping.

She picked up the baby and was about to go when he asked, "Why were
you abusing me!

Alarakkhi felt all her breath knocked out of her. If you'd cut her there
wouldn't have been any blood. Trembling she said, 'No, Huzoor, may my
head fall off if I was abusing you.

And she burst into tears.

In the evening Huseni and Alarakkhi went to collect her pay. She was very
downcast.

"Why so sad?' Huseni tried to console her. "The pay's going to be cut, so let
them cut it. I swear on your life from now on I won't touch another drop of
booze or toddy.'
‘T'm afraid I'm fired. Damn my tongue! How could I...’

‘If you're fired, then you're fired, but let Allah be merciful to him. Why go
on crying about it?’

"You’ve made me come for nothing. Everyone of those women will laugh
at me.

‘If he's fired you, won't we ask on what grounds! And who heard you
abuse him’ Can there be so much injustice that he can fire anyone he pleases!
If I'm not heard P’ll complain to the panchayat, I'll beat my head on the
headman’'s gate--'

‘If our people stuck together like that would Khan Sahib ever dare fine us
so much"

‘No matter how serious the sickness there's a medicine for it, silly.’

But Alarakkhi was not set at rest. Dejection covered her face like a cloud.
When the Inspector heard her abuse him why didn't he even scold her? Why
didn't he ~re her on the spot! She wasn't able to work it out, he actually
seemed kind. She couldn't manage to understand this mystery. She was
afraid. He had decided to fire her- that must have been why he was so nice.
She'd heard that a man about to be hanged is given a fine last meal, they
have to give him anything he wants-so surely the Inspector was going to
dismiss her. They reached the municipal office building. The pay began to
be distributed. The sweeper women were first. Whoever's name was called
would go running and taking her money call down undeserved blessings on
the Inspector and go away. Alarakkhi’s name was always called after
Champa's. Today she was passed over. After Champa, Jahuran's name was
called, and she always followed Alarakkhi.

In despair she looked at Huseni. The women were watching her and
beginning to whisper.

One after another the names were called and Alarakkhi went on looking at
the trees across the way.
Suddenly startled, she heard her name. Slowly she stood up and walked
ahead with the slow tread of a new bride. The paymaster put the full amount
of six rupees in her hand.

She was stupefied. Surely the paymaster was mistaken! In these three
years she had never once got her full pay. And now to get even half would
have been a windfall. She stood there for a second in case the paymaster
should ask for the money back. When he asked her, "Why are you standing
here now, why don't you move along"' she said softly,

"But it's the full amount.’

Puzzled the paymaster looked at her and said, "What else do you want--do
you want to get less!"

‘There's no penalty deducted?’
"No, today there aren't any deductions.

She came away but in her heart she was not content. She was full of
remorse for having abused the Inspector.

Guru Mantra

Domestic squabbles and a dearth of invitations led Pandit Chintamani to
consider renouncing the world and when he vowed to become a wandering
ascetic his best friend, Pandit Moteram Shastri, gave him this advice.

‘Friend, I've been intimately acquainted with a good many first-class
mahatmas. Now, when they arrive at some well-to-do citizen's door they
don't fall in a heap and hold out their hands and call down hypocritical
blessings such as "God keep you in body and soul, may you always be
happy.” Such is the way of beggars. As soon as a holy man reaches the door
he lets out his war-cry in a regular yell so that everybody inside the house is
astonished and comes running to see what's happened. I know two or three
of these slogans--you can use any you like. Gudri Baba used to say, "If
anybody dies five will die!" When they heard this battle-cry people would
fall right at his feet. Siddh Bhagat had a fine slogan: "Eat, drink and be
merry but watch out for the holy man's stick.” Nanga Baba would say, "Give
to me, feed me, let me drink, let me sleep. "Just remember, your prestige
depends a good deal on your slogan. What else can I tell you! Don't forget,
you and I have been friends for a long time, we've enjoyed the same free
dinners hundreds of times. Whenever we were at the same banquet we used
to compete to eat up one dish more than the other. I'm going to miss you!
May God give you a happy life. Chintamani wasn't pleased with any of the
slogans. He said, "Think up some special cry for me.

‘All right--how's this one: "If you don't give to me I'll run you into the
ground.”

"Yes, I like that one, but if you'll allow me, Ill shorten it.’

‘Go right ahead.’

‘Then how about this: "Give or P’ll run you into the ground."' Moteram
leaped up. 'By the Lord above, that's absolutely unique! Devotion has
illuminated you. Splendid! Now try it out just once and we'll see how you do
it.’ Chintamani stuck his fingers in his ears and yelled with all his might.
‘Give or I'll run you into the ground! 'The noise was so thunderous that even
Moteram was startled. The bats flew out of the trees in dismay and dogs
began to bark.

Moteram said, ‘Friend, your cry was like the roar of a lion. Now your
slogan has been decided, I have a few other things to tell you, so pay
attention. The language of holy men is quite different from our ordinary way
of speaking. We say "Sir," for example, to some people, and just "you" to
others. But the holy man says "thou" to everybody, important or
insignificant, rich or poor, old or young; however, go on treating old people
with respect. Also remember never to talk plain Hindi. Otherwise the secret
will be out that you're an ordinary Brahman and not a real holy man. Make
your language fancy. To say, for example, "My good woman, give me
something to eat" is not the style of the holy man. A genuine mahatma will
say it like this: "Woman, spread a feast before me, and you will be waking in
the paths of righteousness.
‘Friend: Chintamani said, ‘how can I praise you enough? You've helped me
beyond measure.

Having given this advice, Moteram took his leave. Chintamani set out and
what should he see right away but a crowd of holy men sitting in front of a
bhang and hashish shop smoking hashish. When they saw Chintamani one of
the holy men pronounced his slogan:

‘Move along, move along,
Otherwise, I'll prove you wrong.

Another holy man proclaimed:

Fee fi fo fum
We holy men have finally come,
From now on only fun.

While these syllables were still echoing in the skies a third mahatma
roared out:

'Here and there
down and up

Hurry up and fill my cup.’ Chintamani could not restrain himself. He burst
out with 'Give or I'll run you into the ground!’

As soon as they heard this the holy men greeted him. The bowl of the
hookah was refilled at once and the task of lighting it was assigned to Pandit
Chintamani. He thought, if I don't accept the pipe my secret will be out.
Nervously he took it. Now anyone who has never smoked hashish can try
and try without being able to make the pipe draw. Closing his eyes
Chintamani inhaled with all his might. The pipe fell from his hands, his eyes
popped, he foamed at the mouth but not the least bit of smoke came from his
lips nor was there any sign that the pipe was kindled. This lack of know-how
was quite enough to ruin his- standing in the society of holy men. A couple
of them advanced angrily and roughly catching him by the hands, pulled him
up.

‘A curse on you: one said, and another, 'Aren't you ashamed of pretending
to be a mahatma!'

Humiliated, Panditji went and sat down near a sweets shop and the holy
men, striking tambourines, began to sing this hymn:

Tlusion is the world, beloved, the world is an illusion.

Both sin and holiness are lies-there's the philosophical solution.

The world is all illusion.

A curse on those who forbid us bhang and hashish, Krishna, lover, all the
world's illusion.

Mukti Marg

Whenever Jhingur looked at his cane fields a sort of intoxication came
over him. He had three bighas of land which would earn him an easy 600
rupees. And if God saw to it that the rates went up, then who could
complain, Both his bullocks were old so he'd buy a new pair at the Batesar
fair. If he could hook on to another two bighas, so much the better. Why
should he worry about money? He was convinced that nobody was as good
as himself--and so there was scarcely anyone in the village he hadn't
quarrelled with,

One evening when he was sitting with his son in his lap, shelling peas, he
saw a nock of sheep coming towards him. He said to himself, 'The sheep
path doesn't come that way. Can't those sheep go along the bank? What's the
idea, coming over here? They'll trample and gobble up the crop. I bet it's
Buddhu the shepherd-- just look at his nerve! He can see me here but he
won't drive his sheep back. What good will it do me to put up with this? If I
try to buy a ram from him he actually asks for five rupees, and everybody
sells blankets for four rupees but he won't settle for less than five.
By now the sheep were close to the cane-field. Jhingur yelled, 'Arrey,
where do you think you’re taking those sheep, you?’

Buddhu said meekly, ‘Chief, they're coming by way of the boundary
embankment. If I take them back around it will mean a couple of miles
extra.’

‘And I'm supposed to let you trample my held to save you a detour! Why
didn't you take them by way of some other boundary path! Do you think I'm
some bull-skinning nobody or has your money turned your head' Turn 'em
back!"

‘Chief, just let them through today. If I ever come back this way again you
can punish me any way you want.

‘I told you to get them out. If just one of them crosses the line you're going
to be in a pack of trouble. 'Chief,’ Buddhu said, ‘if even one blade of grass
gets under my sheep's feet you can call me anything you want.’

Although Buddhu was still speaking meekly he had decided that it would
be a loss of face to turn back. 'If I drive the flock back for a few little threats:
he thought, ‘how will I graze my sheep?’ And Buddhu was a tough man too.
He owned 240 sheep and he was able to get eight annas per night to leave
them in people's fields to manure them, and he sold their milk as well and
made blankets from their wool. He thought, ‘Why's he getting so angry!
What can he do to me? I'm not his servant.’

When the sheep got a whiff of the green leaves they became restless and
they broke into the field. Beating them with his stick Buddhu tried to push
them back across the boundary line but they just broke in somewhere else. In
a fury Jhingur said, 'You're trying to force your way through here but Ill
teach you a lesson!

He put down his son and grabbing up his cudgel he began to whack the
sheep. Not even a washer man would have beaten his donkey so cruelly. He
smashed legs and backs and while they bleated Buddhu stood silent
watching the destruction of his army. After this carnage among the host of
sheep Jhingur said with the pride of victory, 'Now move on straight! And
don't ever think about coming this way again.’ Looking at his wounded
sheep, Buddhu said, Jhingur, you've done a dirty job. You're going to regret
it.’

When Jhingur came home and told his family about the battle, they started
to give him advice.

‘Jhingur, you've got yourself into real trouble! You knew what to do but
you acted as though you didn't. Don't you realize what a tough customer
Buddhu is! Even now it's not too late--go and make peace, otherwise the
whole village will come to grief along with you.

Jhingur thought it over. He began to regret that he'd stopped Buddhu at all.
If the sheep had eaten up a little of his crop it wouldn't have ruined him.
Jhingur didn't enjoy the idea of going to Buddhu's house but urged on by the
others he set out. It was the dead of winter, foggy, with the darkness settling
in everywhere. He had just come out of the village when suddenly he was
astonished to see a fire blazing over in the direction of his cane-held. His
heart started to hammer. A field had caught fire! He ran wildly, hoping it
wasn't his own field, but as he got closer this deluded hope died. He'd been
struck by the very misfortune he'd set out to avert. Buddhu had started the
fire and was ruining the whole village because of him. As he ran it seemed
to him that today his held was a lot nearer than it used to be, as though the
fallow land between had ceased to exist.

When he finally reached his field the fire had assumed dreadful
proportions. Jhingur began to wail. The villagers were running and ripping
up stalks of millet to beat the tire. Among the men Buddhu was the most
valiant fighter; with his dhoti tucked up around his waist he leapt into the
fiery gulfs as though ready to subdue the enemy or die, and he'd emerge
after many a narrow escape. In the end it was the men who triumphed, but
the triumph amounted to defeat. The whole village’s sugarcane crop was
burned to ashes and with the cane all their hopes as well.

It was no secret who had started the fire. But no one dared say anything
about it. There was no proof and what was the point of a case without any
evidence! As for Jhingur, it had become difficult for him to show himself
out of his house. Wherever he went he had to listen to abuse. People said
right to his face, 'You were the cause of the fire! You ruined us, if you hadn't
fought with Buddhu would all this have happened?’
Jhingur was even more grieved by these taunts than by the destruction of
his crop, and he would stay in his house the whole day. Jhingur thought and
thought and decided that Buddhu had to be put in a situation exactly like his
own. Buddhu had ruined him and he was wallowing in comfort, so Jhingur
would ruin Buddhu too.

Since the day of their terrible quarrel Buddhu had ceased to come by
Jhingur's. Jhingur decided to cultivate an intimacy with him; he wanted to
show him he had no suspicion at all that Buddhu started the fire. One day, on
the pretext of getting a blanket, he went to Buddhu, who greeted him with
every courtesy and honour--for a man offers the hookah even to an enemy
and won't let him depart without making him drink milk and syrup.

These days Jhingur was earning a living by working in a jute-wrapping
mill. Usually he got several days wages at once. Only by means of Buddhu's
help could he meet his daily expenses between times. So it was that Jhingur
re-established a friendly footing between them.

Spring came and the peasants were getting the fields ready for planting
cane. Buddhu was doing a fine business. Everybody wanted his sheep. There
were always a half dozen men at his door fawning on him, and he lorded it
over everybody. He doubled the price of hiring out his sheep to manure the
field; if anybody objected he'd say bluntly, "Look, brother, I'm not shoving
my sheep on you. If you don't want them, don't take them. But I can't let you
have them for a pice less than I said. 'The result was that everybody
swarmed around him, despite his rudeness, just like priests after some
pilgrim. Buddhu’s house also began to grow. A veranda was built in front of
the door, six rooms replaced the former two. In short, the house was done
over from top to bottom. Buddhu got the wood from a peasant, from another
the cow dung cakes for the kiln fuel to make the tiles; somebody else gave
him the bamboo and reeds for the mats. He had to pay for having the walls
put up but he didn't give any cash even for this; he gave some lambs. Such is
the power of Lakshmi: the whole job--and it was quite a good house, all in
all--was put up for nothing. They began to prepare for a house-warming.

Jhingur was still labouring all day with but getting enough to half fill his
belly, while gold was raining on Buddhu's house. If Jhingur was angry, who
could blame him! Nobody could put up with such injustice.
One day Jhingur went out walking in the direction of the untouchable
tanners' settlement. He called for Harithar, who came out, greeting him with
‘Ram Ram!’ and filled the hookah. They began to smoke. Harihar, the leader
of the tamers, was ? mean fellow and there wasn't a peasant who didn't
tremble at the sight of him.

After smoking a bit, Jhingur said, 'No singing for the spring festival these
days! We haven't heard you.

‘What festival? The belly can't take a holiday. Tell me, how are you getting
on lately?’

‘Getting by,’ Jhingur said. ‘Hard times mean a hard life. If I work all day in
the mill there's a tire in my stove. But these days only Buddhu's making
money. He doesn't have room to store it! He's built a new house, bought
more sheep. Now there's a big hiss about his house-warming. He's sent paan
to the headmen of all the seven villages around to invite everybody to it.'

Then Jhingur and Harihar began to whisper, plotting their course of action-
-the method, the time and all the steps. When Jhingur left he was strutting--
he'd already overcome his enemy, there was no way for Buddhu to escape
now.

On his way to work the next day he stopped by Buddhu's house. Buddhu
asked him, ‘Aren't you working today?’ 'I'm on my way, but I came by to ask
you if you wouldn't let my calf graze with your sheep. The poor thing's
dying tied up to the post while I'm away all day, she doesn't get enough grass
and fodder to eat.’

‘Brother, I don't keep cows and buffaloes. You know the tanners, they're
all killers. That Harihar killed my two cows, I don't know what he fed them.
Since then I've vowed never again to keep cattle.

But yours is just a calf, there'd be no profit to anyone in harming her.
Bring her over whenever you want.’

Then he began to show Jhingur the arrangements for the house-warming.
Ghee, sugar, flour and vegetables were all on hand. All they were waiting
for was the Satyanarayan ceremony. Jhingur's eyes were popping. When he
came home after work the first thing he did was bring his calf to Buddhu's
house. That night the ceremony was performed and a feast offered to the
Brahmans. The whole night passed in lavishing hospitality on the priests.
Buddhu had no opportunity to go to look after his flock of sheep.

The feasting went on until morning. Buddhu had just got up and had his
breakfast when a man came and said, 'Buddhu, while you've been sitting
around here, out there in your hock the calf has died. You're a fine one! The
rope was still around its neck."

When Buddhu heard this it was as though he'd been punched. Jhingur, who
was there having some breakfast too, said,’ Oh God, my calf? Come on, I
want to see her! But listen, I never tied her with a rope. I brought her to the

flock of sheep and went back home. When did you have her tied with a rope,
Buddhu"

‘God's my witness, I never touched any rope! I haven't been back to my
sheep since then.’

‘If you didn't, then who put the rope on her!’ Jhingur said. "You must have
done it and forgotten it.’

‘And it was in your flock,’ one of the Brahmans said. ‘People are going to
say that whoever tied the rope, that heifer died because of Buddhu's

negligence.’

Harihar came along just then and said, 'I saw him tying the rope around the
calf's neck last night.’

‘Me?’ Buddhu said.
"Wasn't that you with your stick over your shoulder tying up the heifer!’

‘And you're an honest fellow, I suppose!’ Buddhu said. "You saw me tying
her up?’

"Why get angry with me, brother! Let's just say you didn't tie her up, if
that's what you want.’

"We will have to decide about it: one of the Brahmans said. 'A cow
slaughterer should be stoned--it's no laughing matter.
‘Maharaj,’ Jhingur said, 'the killing was accidental.’

"What's that got to do with it!’ the Brahman said. 'It's set down that no cow
is ever to be done to death in any way.’

‘That's right, ‘Jhingur said, ‘Just to tie a cow up is a fiendish act.

‘In the Scriptures it's called the greatest sin,’ the Brahman said. 'Killing a
cow is no less than killing a Brahman.’

‘That's right, ‘Jhingur said. 'The cow's got a high place, that's why we
respect her, isn't it' The cow is like a mother. But Maharaj, it was an
accident--figure out something to get the poor fellow off.’

Buddhu stood listening while the charge of murder was brought against
him like the simplest thing in the world. He had no doubt it was Jhingut's
plotting, but if he said a thousand times that he hadn't put the rope on the
calf nobody would pay any attention to it. They'd say he was trying to
escape the penance.

The outcome was that Buddhu was charged with the death of a cow; the
Brahman had got very incensed about it too and he determined the manner
of compensation. The punishment consisted of three months of begging in
the streets, then a pilgrimage to the seven holy places, and in addition the
price for five cows and feeding 500 Brahmans. Stunned, Buddhu listened to
it. He began to weep, and after that the period of begging was reduced by
one month. Apart from this he received no favour. There was no one to
appeal to, no one to complain to. He had to accept the punishment.

He gave up his sheep to God's care. His children were young and all by
herself what could his wife do! The poor fellow would stand in one door
after another hiding his face and saying, 'Even the gods are banished for
cow-slaughter!' He received alms but along with them he had to listen to
bitter insults. Whatever he picked up during the day he'd cook in the evening
under some tree and then go to sleep right there. He did not mind the
hardship, for he was used to wandering all day with his sheep and sleeping
beneath trees, and his food at home hadn't been much better than this, but he
was ashamed of having to beg, especially when some harridan would taunt
him with, ‘You've found a fine way to earn your bread!’ That sort of thing
hurt him profoundly but what could he do?

He came home after two months. His hair was long, and he was as weak as
though he were sixty years old. During the two months many of his sheep
had been stolen. When the children took them to graze the other villagers
would hide one or two sheep away in a field or hue and afterwards slaughter
them and eat them. The boys, poor lads, couldn't catch a single one of them,
and even when they saw, how could they fight’ The whole village was
banded together. It was an awful dilemma. Helpless, Buddhu sent for a
butcher and sold the whole flock to him for 500 rupees. He took 200 rupees
and started out on his pilgrimage. The rest of the money he set aside for
feeding the Brahmans.

When Buddhu left, his house was burgled twice, but by good fortune the
family woke up and the money was saved.

It was Savan, the month of rains, with everything green. Jhingur, who had
no bullocks now, had rented out his field to sharecroppers. Buddhu had been
heed from his penitential obligations and along with them his delusions
about wealth. Neither one of them had anything left; neither could be angry
with the other--there was nothing left to be angry about.

Because the jute mill had closed down Jhingur went to work with pick and
shovel in town where a very large rest house for pilgrims was being built.
There were a thousand labourers on the job. Every seventh day Jhingur
would take his pay home and after spending the night there go back the next
morning.

Buddhu came to the same place looking for work. Once when he was
going with a shallow pan on his head to get mortar Jhingur saw him. 'Ram
Ram’ they said to one another and Jhingur filled the pan. Buddhu picked it
up. For the rest of the day they went about their work in silence.

At the end of the day Jhingur asked, 'Are you going to cook something?’
‘How can I eat if I don't?’ Buddhu said.

‘T eat solid food only once a day, ‘Jhingur said. 'I get by just drinking water
with ground meal in it in the evenings. Why fuss!’
‘Pick up some of those sticks lying around,’ Buddhu said. 'I brought some
flour from home. I had it ground there---it costs a lot here in town. I'll knead
it on the hat side of this rock. Since you won't eat food I cook I’ll get it ready
and you cook it.’

‘But there's no frying pan.’

‘There are lots of frying pans: Buddhu said. 'T'll scour out one of these
mortar trays.’

The fire was lit, the flour kneaded. Jhingur cooked the chapatties, Buddhu
brought the water. They both ate the bread with salt and red pepper. Then
they filled the bowl of the hookah. They both lay down on the stony ground
and smoked.

Buddhu said, 'I was the one who set tire to your cane-field.'
Jhingur said light-heartedly, 'I know.

After a little while he. said, 'I tied up the heifer and Harihar fed it
something.

In the same light-hearted tone Buddhu said, 'I know.

Then the two of them went to sleep.

Poos ki Raat

Halku came in and said to his wife, “The Landlord’s come! Get the rupees
you set aside, I’ll give him the money. Munni had been sweeping. She
turned around and said, ‘But there's only three rupees. If you give them to
him where's the blanket going to come from? How are you going to get
through these January nights in the fields! Tell him we'll pay him after the
harvest, not right now.
For a moment Halku stood hesitating. January was on top of them.
Without a blanket he couldn't possibly sleep in the fields at night. But the
landlord wouldn't be put off, he'd threaten and insult him. Trying to coax her
Halku said, 'Come on, give it to me. I’ll figure out some other plan.’

Munni was angry. She said, "You've already tried. Some other plan". You
just tell me what other plan can be found. Is somebody going to give you a
blanket! What I say is, give up this tenant farming! The work's killing you,
whatever you harvest goes to pay up the arrears. Were we born just to keep
paying off debts! Earn some money for your own belly, give up that kind of
farming. I won't give you the money, I won't!,

Sadly Halku said, "Then I'll have to put up with his abuse.’ Losing her
temper, Munni said, 'Why should he abuse you--is this his kingdom?’ But as
she said it her brews relaxed from the frown. The bitter truth in Halku's
words came charging at her like a wild beast. She went to the niche in the
wall, took out the rupees and handed them over to Halku.

Halku took the money and went outside looking as though he were tearing
his heart out and giving it away. He'd saved the rupees from his work, pice
by pice, for his blanket. Today he was going to throw it away. With every
step his head sank lower under the burden of his poverty.

A dark January night. In the sky even the stars seemed to be shivering. At
the edge of his field, underneath a shelter of cane leaves, Halku lay on a
bamboo cot wrapped up in his old burlap shawl, shivering. Underneath the
cot his friend, Jabra the dog, was whimpering with his muzzle pressed into
his belly. Neither one of them was able to sleep.

Halku curled up drawing his knees close against his chin and said, 'Cold,
Jabra! Didn't I tell you, in the house you could lie in the paddy straw! So
why did you come out here!, Now you'll have to bear the cold, there's
nothing I can do. You thought I was coming out here to eat puris and sweets
and you came running on ahead of me. Now you can moan all you want.’

Jabra wagged his tail without getting up.

Halku reached out his hand and patted Jabra's cold back.
He got up, took some embers hem the pit and filled his pipe. Jabra got up
too.

Smoking, Halku said, 'If you smoke the cold's just as bad, but at least you
feel a little betters’

Jabra looked at him with eyes overgrowing with love.

"You have to put up with just one more cold night. Tomorrow I'll spread
some straw. When you bed down in that you won't feel the cold.’

Jabra put his paws on Halku's knees and brought his muzzle close. Halku
felt his warm breath.

After he finished smoking Halku lay down and made up his mind that
however things were he would sleep now. But in only one minute his he
began to pound. He turned from side to side, but like some kind of witch the
cold weather continued to torment him.

When he could no longer bear it he gently picked Jabra up and, patting his
he; got him to fall asleep in his lap. The dog's body gave off some kind of
stink but Halku, hugging him tight, experienced a happiness he hadn't felt
for months. Jabra probably thought he was in heaven, and in Halku’s
innocent heart there no resentment of his smell. He embraced him with the
very same affection he would have felt for a brother or a friend.

Suddenly Jabra picked up the noise of some animal. This special intimacy
had produced a new alertness in him that disdained the onslaught of the
wind. Springing up, he ran out of the shelter and began to bark. Halku
whistled and called him several times. But Jabra would not come back to
him. He went on barking while he ran around through the furrows of the
field. He would come back for a moment, then dash off again at once.

Another hour passed. The night fanned up the cold with the wind. Halku
sat up and bringing both knees tight against his chest hid his face between
them, but the cold was just as biting. It seemed is though all his blood had
frozen, that ice rather than blood filled his veins. He leaned back to look at
the skies. How much of the night was still left! Only a stone's throw from
Halku’s field there was a mango grove. Halku thought, ‘If I go and get a pile
of leaves I can make a tire of them and keep warm. If anybody sees me
gathering the leaves in the dead of night they'll think it's a ghost. Of course
there's a chance some animal's hidden in my field waiting, but I can't stand
sitting here any longer.’ He ripped up some stalks from a nearby field, made
a broom out of them and picking up a lighted cow dung cake went toward
the grove. Jabra watched him coming and ran to him wagging his tail. Halku
said, 'I couldn't stand it any more, Jabra. Come along, let's go into the
orchard and gather leaves to warm up with. When we're toasted we'll come
back and sleep. The night's still far from over.’ Jabra barked his agreement
and trotted on toward the orchard.

Suddenly a gust carried the scene of henna blossoms to him. "Where's that
sweet smell coming from, Jabra?’

Jabra had found a bone lying somewhere and he was chewing on it. Halku
set his fire down on the ground and began to gather the leaves. In a little
while he had a great heap. His hands were frozen, his bare feet numb.

In a little while the fire was burning merrily. The dames leapt upward
licking at the overhanging branches. In the flickering light the immense
trees of the grove looked as though they were carrying the vast darkness on
their heads. In the blissful sea of darkness the firelight seemed to pitch and
toss like a boat.

Halku sat before the fire and let it warm him. After a while he took off his
shawl and tucked it behind him, then he spread out both feet as though
challenging the cold to do its worst. Victorious over the immense power of
the winter, he could not repress his pride in his triumph.

He said to Jabra, "Well, Jabra, you're not cold now, are you!’ Jabra barked
as though to say, 'How could I feel cold now!’

The leaves were all burned up. Darkness covered the orchard again. Under
the ashes a few embers smouldered.

Halku wrapped himself up in his shawl again and sat by the warm ashes
humming a tune. The fire had warmed him , through but as the cold began to
spread he felt drowsy. Jabra gave a loud bark and ran toward the field.
Halku realized chat this meant a pack of wild animals had probably broken
into the field. They might be nilgai. He distinctly heard the noise of their
moving around. Then it seemed to him they must be grazing; he began to
hear the sound of nibbling. He thought, ‘No, with Jabra around no animal
can get into the field, he'd rip it to shreds. I must have been mistaken. Now
there's no sound at all. How could I have been mistaken!’

He shouted, ‘Jabra! Jabra!’

Jabra went on barking and did not come to him. Then again there was the
sound of munching and crunching in the field. He could not have been
mistaken this time. It really hurt to think about getting up from where he
was. It was so comfortable there that it seemed intolerable to go to the field
in this cold and chase after animals. He didn't stir.

He shouted at the top of his lungs, 'Hillo! Hillo! Hillo!’

Jabra started barking again. There were animals eating his held just when
the crop was ready. What a fine crop it was! And these cursed animals were
destroying it. With a firm resolve he got up and took a few steps. But
suddenly a blast of wind pierced him with a sting like a scorpion’s so that he
went back and sat again by the extinguished ~re and stirred up the ashes to
warm his chilled body. Jabra was barking his lungs out, the nilgai were
devastating his field and Halku went on sitting peacefully near the warm
ashes. His drowsiness held him motionless as though with ropes. Wrapped
in his shawl he fell asleep on the warmed ground near the ashes.

When he woke in the morning the sun was high and Munni was saying,
‘Do you think you’re going to sleep all day! You came out here and had a
fine time while the whole field was being flattened!"

Halku got up and said, “Then you've just come from the field!’ 'Yes, it's all
ruined. And you could sleep like that! Why did you bother to put up the
shelter anyway?’

Halku sought an excuse. 'I nearly died and just managed to get through the
night and you worry about your crop. I had such a pain in my belly I can't
describe it.'

Then the two of them walked to the edge of their land. He looked: the
whole field had been trampled and Jabra was stretched out underneath the
shelter as though he were dead.
They continued to stare at the ruined field. Munni's face was shadowed
with grief but Halku was content.

Munni said, ‘Now you'll have to hire yourself out to earn some money to
pay off the rent and taxes.

With a contented smile Halku said, ‘But I won't have to sleep nights out
here in the cold.’

Motor ke Chinte

Well it’s like this: early in the morning I finish off my bath and my
prayers, paint a vermillion circle on ;my forehead, get into my yellow robe
and wooden sandals, tuck my astrological charts under my arm, grab hold of
my stick a regular skull-cracker--and start out for a client's house. I was
supposed to settle the right day for a wedding; it was going to earn me at
least a rupee. Over and above the breakfast. And my breakfast is no ordinary
breakfast. Common clerks don't have the courage to invite me to a meal. A
whole month of breakfasts for them is just one day's meal for me. In this
connection I fully appreciate rich gentlemen and bankers--how they feed
you, how they feed you! So generously that you feel happy all over! After I
get an idea of the generosity of the client I accept his invitation. If somebody
puts on a long face when it’s time to feed me I lose my appetite. How can
anybody feed you if he's weeping! I can't digest a meal like that at all. I like
a client who hails me with, 'Hey Shastriji, have some sweets!’ whom I can
answer, ‘No, friend-- not yet-'

It had rained a lot during the night. There were puddles everywhere on the
road. I was walking along all wrapped up in my thoughts when a car came
along splashing through the puddles. My face got spattered. And then what
do I see but my dhoti looking as though somebody mixed up a mess of mud
and flung it all over it. My clothes were ruined; apart from that, I was filthy,
to say nothing of the money lost. If I'd caught those people in the car I'd
have done a job on them they wouldn't forget. I stood there, helpless. I
couldn't go to a client's house in this state and my own house was at least a
full mile away. The people in the street were all clapping to ridicule me. I
never was in such a mess. Well, old heart, what are you going to do' now? If
you go home what will the wife say!

I decided in a trice what my duty was. I got together about a dozen scenes
from ail around and waited for the next car. I'd show them a Brahman’s
power.

It wasn't even ten minutes before a car came into sight. Oh no! It was the
same car. He'd probably gone to get the master from the station and was
returning home. As soon as it got close I let fly a rock. I shot it out with all
my strength. The gentleman's cap went flying and landed on the side of the
mad. The car slowed down. I fired again. The window-pane smashed to
pieces and one piece even landed on the fine gentleman's cheek drawing
blood. The car stopped and the gentleman got out and came toward me, gave
me a punch and said, ‘You swine, I'll take you to the police!’ I'd scarcely
heard him when, throwing my books down on the ground, I grabbed him by
the waist, tripped him and he fell with a smack in the mud. I jumped on top
of him at once and gave him a good twenty punches one after the other until
he got dizzy. in the mean-time his wife got out. High-heeled shoes, silk sari,
powdered cheeks, lipstick, mascara. She began to poke al me with her
umbrella. I left the husband and wielding my stick said, ‘Lady, don't meddle
in men's business or you may get a whack and a bruise and I'd be very sorry
about that.’ The gentleman found the occasion to pick himself up and give
me a kick with his booted feet. I got a real knock in the knee. Losing
patience, I struck out with my stick getting him in the legs. He fell like a tree
when you chop it down. Memsahib came running brandishing her umbrella.
I took it away from her without any trouble and threw it away. The driver
had been sitting in the car ah this time. Now he got out too and came rushing
at me with a cane. I brought my stick down on him too and he fell flat. A
whole mob had gathered to see the fun. Still lying on the ground the sahib
said, "You rogue, we'll hand you over to the police!

I wielded my stick again and wanted to thump him on the skull but he
folded his hands and said, ‘No, no, baba, we won't go to the police. Forgive
me.

I said, ‘All right, leave the police out of it or Pll crack you over the skull.
I'd get six months at the most for it but I'd break you of the habit. You drive
along and splash up mud and you're blind with conceit. You don't give a
damn who's in front of you or alongside of you.

One of the onlookers said, 'Arrey, Maharaj! These drivers know perfectly
well they're splashing and when some man gets drenched they think it's great
and laugh at him. You did well to give one of them a lesson.’

"You hear what the people are saying,’ I shouted at the sahib. He gave a
dirty look toward the man who'd spoken and said to him,

"You're lying, it's a complete lie.’

"You're still just as rude, are you! Shall I have another go at you with the
stick!’

"No, baba, ‘he said humbly. ‘It’s true, it’s true. Now are you satisfied!’
Another bystander said, ‘He’ ll tell you what you want to hear now but as
soon as he's back in his automobile he'll start the same old business all over
again. Just put ‘em in their cars and they all think they're related to the
maharaja.'

‘Tell him to admit he's wrong,’ said another.
‘No, no, make him hold on to his ears and do knee-bends:.'

‘And what about the driver?’ They're all rogues. If a rich man's puffed up,
that's one thing, but what are you drivers so conceited about? They take hold
of the wheel and they can't see straight any more.

I accepted the suggestion that master and driver hold on to their ears and
do knee-bends, the way you punish little children, while Memsahib counted.
‘Listen, memsahib,' I said, ‘you’ve got to count a whole hundred bends, not
one less but as many over as you like. Two men drew the master up by his
hands, two others that gentleman-driver. The poor driver's leg was bruised
but he began to do the knee-bends. The master was still pretty cocky; he lay
down and began to spew out gibberish. I was furious and swore in my heart
that I wouldn't let him go without doing a hundred knee-bends. I ordered
four men to shove the car off the edge of the road.
They set to work at once. Instead of four, fifty men crowded around and
began to shove the car. The road was-built up very high with the land below
it on either side. If the car had slid down it would have smashed to pieces.
The car had already reached the edge of the road when the sahib let out a
groan and stood up and said, ‘Baba, don't wreck my car, we'll do the knee-
bends.’

I ordered the men to stand off. But they were all enjoying themselves and
nobody paid any attention to me. But when I lifted up the stick and ran for
them they all abandoned the car and the sahib, shutting his eyes, began to do
the knee-bends.

After ten of them I said to the Memsahib, ‘How many has he done!
Very snooty she said, ‘I wasn't counting.’

‘Then sahib's going co be groaning and moaning all day long, I won't let
him go. If you want to cake him home in good health count the knee-bends,
then I’Il let him go.

The sahib saw that without his punishment he wouldn't get away with his
life, so he began the knee-bends again. One, two, three, four, five...

Suddenly another car came into view. Sahib saw it and said very humbly,
‘Panditji, take pity on me, you are my father. Take pity on me and I won't sit
in a car again.

I felt merciful and said, ‘No, I don't forbid you to sit in your car, I just
want you to treat men like men when you're in it.’ The second car was
speeding along. I gave a signal. All the men picked up rocks. The owner of
this car was doing the driving himself. Slowing dawn he tried to creep
through us gradually when I advanced and caught him by the ears, shook
him violently and after giving him a slap on both cheeks, said, ‘Don’t splash
with the car, understand! Move along politely.’ But he began to gabble until
he saw a hundred men carrying rocks, then without any more hiss he went
on his way.

A minute after he left another car came along. I ordered fifty men to bar
the road; the car stopped. I gave him a few slaps too but the poor fellow was
a gentleman. He took them as though he enjoyed them and continued his
journey.

Suddenly a man said, ‘The police are coming.

And everybody took to his heels. I too came down off the mad and sidling
into a little lane I disappeared.

Do Bailon Ki Katha

Jhuri the vegetable farmer had two bullocks named Hira and Moti. Both
were of fine Pachai stock, of great stature, beautiful to behold, and diligent
at their labours. The two had lived together for a very long time and become
sworn brothers. Face to face or side by side they would hold discussions in
their silent language. How each understood the other’s thoughts we cannot
say, but they certainly possessed some mysterious power. They would
express their love by licking and sniffing one another, and sometimes they
would even lock horns — not from hostility but rather out of friendship and a
sense of fun, the way friends as soon as they become intimate slap and
pummel and another; any friendship lacking such displays seems rather
superficial and insipid and not to be trusted. When they were released from
the yoke after their day’s work at noon or in the evening they would lick and
nuzzle one another to ease their fatigue. When the oilseed cake and straw
was tossed into the manager they would stand up together, thrust their
muzzles in to the trough together, and sit down side by side. When one
withdrew his mouth the other would do so too.

On one occasion Jhuri sent the pair to his father-in-law’s. How could the
bullocks know why they were being sent away? They assumed that the
master had sold them. If God had given them speech, they would have asked
Jhuri, "Why are you throwing us poor wretches out! We've done everything
possible to serve you well. If working as hard as we did couldn't get the job
done, you could have made us work still harder. We were willing to die
labouring for you. We never complained about the food, whatever you gave
us to eat we bowed our heads and ate it, so why did you sell us into the
hands of this tyrant?’
At evening the two bullocks reached their new place, hungry after a whole
day without food, but when they were brought to the manger, neither so
much as stuck his mouth in. Their hearts were heavy; they were separated
from the home they had thought was their own. New house, new village,
new people, all seemed alien to them.

They consulted in their mute language, glancing at one another out of the
corners of their eyes, and lay down. When the village was deep in sleep the
two of them pulled hard, broke their together and set out for home. That
tether was very tough, no one could have guessed that any bullock could
break it; but a redoubled power had entered into them and the ropes snapped
with one violent jerk.

When he got up early in the morning Jhuri saw that his two bullocks were
standing at the trough, half a tether dangling from each of their necks. Their
legs were muddled up to the knees and resentful love gleamed in their eyes.

When Jhuri saw the bullocks he was overwhelmed with affection for them.
He ran and threw his arms around their necks, and very pleasant was the
spectacle of that loving embrace and kissing.

The children of the household and the village boys gathered, clapping their
hands in welcome.

One boy said, 'Nobody has bullocks like these: and another agreed, "They
came back from so far all by themselves: while a third said, "They're not
bullocks, in an earlier life they were men. ‘And nobody dared disagree
with*this.

But when Jhuri's wife saw the bullocks at the gate she got angry and said,
“What loafers these oxen are, they didn't work at my father's place for one
day before they ran away!’

Jhuri could not listen to his bullocks being slandered like this. Loafers, are
they? At your father's they must not have fed them so what were they to do?'

In her overbearing way his wife said, 'Oh sure, you're the only one who
knows how to feed bullocks while everybody else gives them nothing but
water. Jhuri railed at her, ‘If they'd been fed why would they run off?'
Aggravated, she said, “They ran away just because those people don't
make fools of themselves spoiling them like you. They feed them but they
also make them work hard. These two are real lazy-bones and they ran away.
Let’s see them get oilseed and bran now? I'll give them nothing but dry
straw, they can eat it or drop dead.

So it came about. The hired hand was given strict orders to feed them
nothing but dry straw.

When the bullocks put their faces in the trough they found it insipid. No
savour, no juice--how could they eat it? With eyes full of hope they began to
stare toward the door.

Jhuri said to the hired hand, ‘Why the devil don't you throw in a little
oilseed?’

‘The mistress would surely kill me.’
‘Then do it on the sly.’
‘Oh no, boss, afterwards you'll side with her.

The next day Jhuri’s brother-in-law came again and took the bullocks
away. This time he yoked them to the wagon. A couple of times Moti
wanted to knock the wagon into the ditch, but Hira, who was more tolerant,
held him back.

When they reached the house, Gaya tied them with thick ropes and paid
them back for yesterday's mischief. Again he threw down the same dry
straw. To his own bullocks he gave oilseed cake, ground lentils, everything.

The two bullocks had never suffered such an insult. Jhuri wouldn't strike
them even with a newer stem. The two of them would rise up at a click of
his tongue, while here they were beaten. Along with the pain of injured pride
they had to put up with dry straw. They didn't even bother to look in the
trough.

The next day Gaya yoked them to the plow, but it was as though the two of
them had sworn an oath not to lift a foot--he grew tired beating them but not
one foot would they lift. One time when the cruel fellow delivered a sharp
blow on Hira's nostrils Moti's anger went out of control and he took to his
heels with the plow. Plough-share, rope, yoke, harness, all were smashed to
pieces. Had there not been strong ropes around their necks it would have
been impossible to catch the two of them.

Hira said in his silent language, 'Its useless to run away

Moti answered, ‘But, he was going to kill you.

"We'll really get beaten now.

‘So what! We were born bullocks, how can we escape beating!’

‘'Gaya's coming on the run with a couple of men and they're both carrying
sticks.

Moti said. ‘Just say the word and I'll show them a little fun. Here he comes
with his stick!’

‘No, brother!’ Hira cautioned. ‘Just stand still.’
Tf he beats me I'll knock one or two of them down.’
‘No, that's not the dharma of our community.’

Moti could only stand, protesting violently in his heart. Gaya arrived,
caught them and took them away. Fortunately he didn't beat them this time,
for if he had Moti would have struck back. When they saw his fierce look
Gaya and his helpers concluded that this time it would be best to put it off.

This day again the same dry straw was brought to them. They stood in
silence. In the house the people were eating dinner. Just then a quite young
girl came out carrying a couple of pieces of bread. She fed the two of them
and went away. How could a piece of bread still their hunger? But in their
hearts they felt as though they had been fed a full meal. Here too was the
dwelling of some gentle folk. The girl was Bharo’s daughter; her mother was
dead and her stepmother beat her often, so that she felt a kind of sympathy
for the bullocks. The two were yoked all day, took a lot of beatings, got
stubborn. In the evening they were tied up in their stall, and at night the
same little girl would come out and feed some bread to each of them. The
happy result of this communion of love was that even though they ate only a
few mouthfuls of the dry straw they did not grow weak; still their eyes and
every cell of their bodies filled with rebelliousness.

One day Moti said in his silent language, 'I can't stand it any longer, Hira.
So what do you say, tonight we'll break the ropes and run away!

"Yes, [ll agree to that, but how can we break such a thick rope!’
‘There is a way. First gnaw the rope’ a bit, then it will snap with one jerk’

At night when the girl had fed them and gone off the two began to gnaw
their ropes, but the thick cord wouldn't fit in their mouths. The poor fellows
tried hard over and over again without any luck. Suddenly the door of the
house opened and the same girl came out; the bullocks I lowered their herds
and began to lick her hand. Their tails stood up while she stroked their
foreheads, and then she said, ‘I’m going to let you go. Be very quiet and run
away or these people will kill you. In the house today they were talking
about putting rings in your noses.

She untied the rope, but the two stood silent.

"Well, let's go: said Hira, ‘only tomorrow this orphan's going to be in a lot
of trouble. Everybody in the house will suspect her.

Suddenly the girl yelled, ‘Uncle's bullocks are running away! Daddy,
daddy, come quick, they're running away!

Gaya came rushing out of the house to catch the bullocks. They were
running now, with Gaya fast behind them. They ran even faster and Gaya set
up a shout. Then he turned back to fetch some men of the village. This was
the chance for the two friends to make good their escape, and they ran
straight ahead, no longer aware by now just where they were. There was no
trace of the familiar road they'd come by. They were coming to villages
they'd never seen. Then the two of them halted at the edge of a field and
began to think about what they ought to do now.

Hira said, 'It appears we've lost our way.’
"You took to your heels without thinking. We should have knocked him
down dead right on the spot.

‘If we'd killed him what would the world say? He abandoned his dharma,
but we stuck to ours.

They were dizzy with hunger. Peas were growing in the field and they
began to browse, stopping occasionally to listen for anyone coming.

They had scarcely eaten a couple of mouthfuls when two men with sticks
came running and surrounded the two friends. Hira was on the embankment
and slipped away, but Moti was down in the soggy field. His hooves were so
deep in mud that he couldn't run, and be was caught. When Hira saw his
comrade in trouble he dashed back. If they were going to be trapped, then
they'd be trapped together So the watchmen caught him too.

Early in the morning the two friends were shut up in a village pound. The
two friends stayed tied up there for a week. No one gave them so much as a
bit of hay. True, water was given to them once. This was all their
nourishment. They got so weak that they could not even stand up, and their
ribs were sticking out. One day someone beat a drum outside the enclosure
and towards noon about fifty or sixty people gathered there. Then the two
friends were brought out and the inspection began. People came and studied
their appearance and went away disappointed. Who would buy bullocks that
looked like corpses!

Suddenly there came a bearded man with red eyes and a cruel race; he dug
his fingers into the haunches of the bullocks and began to talk with the clerk.
When they saw his expression the hearts of the two friends grew weak from
what their intuition told them. They had no doubt at all as to who he was and
why he felt them with his hands. They looked at one another with frightened
eyes and lowered their heads.

Hira said, 'We ran away from Gaya's house in vain. We won't survive this.’

Without much faith Moti answered, 'They say God has mercy on
everybody. Why isn't He being merciful to us?’
‘To God it’s all the same whether we live or die. Don't worry, it's not so
bad, for a little while we'll be with Him. Once He saved us in the shape of
that little girl, so won’t He save us now"

‘This man is going to cut our throats. Just watch.’

‘So why worry! Every bit of us, flesh, hide, horns and bones, will be used
for something or the other.

When the auction was over the friends went off with that bearded man.
Every bit of their bodies was trembling. They could scarcely lift their feet,
but they were so frightened they managed to keep stumbling along--for if
they slowed down the least bit they'd get a good whack from the stick.

Along the way they saw a herd of cows and bullocks grazing in a verdant
meadow. All the animals were happy, sleek and supple. Some were leaping
about, others lying down contentedly chewing their cud. What a happy life
was theirs! Yet how selfish they all were. Not one of them cared about how
their two brothers must be suffering after falling into the hands of the
butcher.

Suddenly it seemed to them that the road was familiar. Yes, this was the
road by which Gaya had taken them away. They were coming to the same
fields and orchards, the same villages. At every instant their pace quickened.
All their fatigue and weariness disappeared. Oh, just look, here was their
own meadow, here was the same well where they had worked the winch to
pull up the bucket, yes, it was the same well.

Moti said, ‘Our house is close by!’

‘It's God's mercy!’ said Hira. 'As for me, I'm making a run for home!

"Will he let us go?’

‘ll knock him down and kill him.’

"No, no, run and make it to our stalls, and we won't budge from there.’
As though they'd gone crazy, joyfully kicking up their heels like calves,
they made off for the house. There was their stall! They ran and stood by it
while the bearded man came dashing after them.

Jhuri was sitting in his doorway sunning himself. As soon as he saw the
bullocks he ran and embraced them over and over again. Tears of joy flowed
from the two friends' eyes, and one of them licked Jhuri's hand.

The bearded man came up and grabbed their tethers. "These are my
bullocks: said Jhuri.

‘How can they be! I just bought them at auction at the cattle pound.’

T’ll bet you stole them,’ said Jhuri. ‘Just shut up and leave. They’re my
bullocks. They'll be sold only when I sell them. Who has the right to auction
off my bullocks?'

Said the bearded man, 'T’ll go to the police station and make a complaint.’

‘They're my bullocks, the proof is they came and stood at my door. in a
rage the bearded man stepped forward to drag the bullocks away. This is
when Moti lowered his horns. The bearded man stepped back. Moti charged
and the man took to his heels, with Moti after him, and stopped only at the
outskirts of the village where he took his stand guarding the road. The
butcher stopped at some distance, yelled back threats and insults and threw
scenes. And Moti stood blocking his path like a victorious hero. The
villagers came out to watch the entertainment and had a good laugh. When
the bearded man acknowledged defeat and went away Moti came back
strutting.

Hira said, 'I was afraid you'd get so mad you'd go and kill him. 'If he’d
caught me I wouldn't have given up before I'd killed him.’

"Won't he come back now?’

If he does I'll take care of him long before he gets here. Let's just see him
take us away!’

"What if he has us shot?’
"Then I'll be dead, but I'll be of no use to him.’
‘Nobody thinks of the life we have as being a life.

‘Only because we're so simple... In a little while their trough was filled
with oilseed cake, hay, bran and grain, and the two friends began to eat.
Jhuri stood by and stroked them while a couple of dozen boys watched the
show.

Excitement seemed to have spread through the whole village.

At this moment the mistress of the house came out and kissed each of the
bullocks on the forehead.

Thakur Ka Kuan

Jhokhu brought the lota to his mouth but the water smelled foul. He said to
Gangi, ‘What kind of water is this? It stinks so much I can't drink it! My
throat's burning and you give me water that's turned bad.’ Every evening
Gangi filled the water jugs. The well was a long way off and it was hard for
her to make several trips. She'd brought this water yesterday and there'd
been no bad smell at all. How could it be there now? She lifted the lota to
her nostrils and it certainly smelt foul. Surely some animal must have fallen
into the well and died. But she didn't know where else she could get any
water.

No one would let her walk up to the Thakur's well. Even while she was far
off, people would start yelling at her. At the other end of the village, the
shopkeeper had a well but even there they wouldn't let her draw water. For
people like herself there wasn't any well in the village.

Jhokhu, who'd been sick for several days, held back his thirst for a little
while. Then he said, ‘I'm so thirsty I can't stand it. Bring me the water, I'll
hold my nose and drink a little.
Gangi did not give it to him. His sickness would get worse from drinking
bad water-that much she knew. But she didn't know that by boiling the water
it would be made safe. She said, ‘How can you drink it? Who knows what
kind of beast has died in it! I'll go and get you some water from the well.

Surprised, Jokhu stared at her. "Where can you get more water?’

‘The Thakur and the shopkeeper both have wells. Won't they let me fill just
one lota!'

"You'll come back with your arms and legs broken, that's all. You'd better
just sit down and keep quiet. The Brahman will give a curse, the Thakur will
beat you with a stick, and that money-lending shopkeeper takes five for
every one he gives. Do you think people like that are going to let you draw
water from their wells.’ Harsh truth was in these words and Gangi could not
deny it. But she wouldn't let him drink that stinking water.

By nine at night the dead-tired field hands were fast asleep. Gangi reached
the Thakur's property to get water from his well.

The dim glow of a small oil lamp lit up the well. Gangi sat hidden behind
the wall and began to wait for the right moment. Everybody in the village
drank the water from his well. It was closed to nobody; only those unlucky
ones like herself could not use their buckets here.

Gangi [suddenly felt very angry.] Why was she so low and those others so
high! Because they wore a thread around their necks? There wasn't one of
them in the village who wasn't rotten. They stole, they cheated, they lied in
court, [then how were they so high and mighty?]

She heard people approaching the well and her heart began to pound. If
anybody saw her, she'd get an awful kicking out of it. She grabbed her
bucket and rope and crept away to hide in the dark shadows of a tree.

Two women had come to draw water and they were talking. One said:
‘There they were eating and they order us to get more water.’ "The men folk
get jealous if they think they see us sitting around taking it easy.’

‘That's right, and you'll never see them pick up the pitcher and fetch it
themselves.’
They just order us to get it as though we were slaves.

After they had filled their buckets and left, Gangi came out from the
shadow of the tree and drew close to the well platform. The idlers had left,
the Thakur had shut his door and gone inside to the courtyard to sleep. Gangi
took a moment to sigh with relief. On every side, the field was clear. Gangi
tiptoed up on to the well platform. Never before had she felt such a sense of
triumph.

She looped the rope around the bucket. Like some soldier stealing into the
enemy's fortress at night she peered cautiously on every side. If she were
caught now, the slightest hope of mercy or leniency won't be there. Finally,
with a prayer to the gods, she mustered her courage and cast the bucket into
the well.

Slowly, slowly it sank in the water. There was not the slightest sound.
Gangi yanked it back up with all her might to the rim of the well. No strong-
armed athlete could have dragged it up more swiftly.

She had just stooped to catch it and set it on the wall when suddenly the
Thakur's door opened. The jaws of a tiger could not have terrified her more.

The rope escaped from her hand. With a crash the bucket fell into the
water, the rope after it, and for a few seconds there were sounds of
splashing.

Yelling "Who's there’ Who's there?’ the Thakur came toward the well and
Gangi jumped from the platform and ran way as fast as she could. When she
reached home, Jokhu, with the lota at his mouth, was drinking that filthy,
stinking water.

Bade Bhai Sahib

My big brother was five years older than me but only three grades ahead.
He'd begun his studies at the same age I had but he didn't I like the idea of
moving hastily in an important matter like education. He wanted to lay a
firm foundation for that great edifice, so he took two years to do one year's
work; sometimes he even took three. If the foundations weren't well-made,
how could the edifice endure?

I was nine, he was fourteen. He had full right by seniority to supervise and
instruct me. And I was expected to accept every order of his as law.

By nature he was very studious. He was always sitting with a book open.
And perhaps to rest his brain he would sometimes draw pictures of birds,
dogs and cats in the margin of his notebook. Occasionally he would write a
name, ? word or a sentence ten or twenty times. He might copy a couplet out
several times in beautiful letters or create new words which made no rhyme
or reason. I wasn't really very keen about studying. To pick up a book and sit
with it for an hour was a tremendous effort. As soon as I found a chance I'd
leave the hostel and go to the field and play marbles or fly paper kites or
sometimes just meet a chum--what could be more fun? But as soon as I
came back into the room and saw my brother's scowling face I was petrified.
His first question would be, ‘Where were you!’ Always this question, always
asked in the same tone and the only answer I had was silence. I don't know
why I couldn't manage to say that I'd just been outside playing. My silence
was an acknowledgement of guilt and my brother's only remedy for this was
to greet me with indignant words.

‘If you study English this way you'll be studying your whole life and you
won't get one word right! Studying English is no laughing matter that
anyone who wants to can learn. You've got to wear out your eyes morning
and night and use every ounce of energy, then maybe you'll master the
subject. And even then it's just to say you have a smattering of it. Even great
scholars can't write proper English, to say nothing of being able to speak it.
End I ask you, how much of a blockhead are you chat you can't learn a
lesson from looking at me? You've seen with your own eyes how much I
grind. No matter how many shows and carnivals there may be have you ever
seen me going to watch them? Every day there are cricket and hockey
matches but I don't go near them. I keep on studying all the time, and even
so it takes me two years or even three for one grade. So, how do you expect
to pass when you waste your time playing like this? Why waste our dad's
hard-earned money?’
Hearing a dressing-down like this I'd start to cry. My brother was an expert
in the art of giving advice. He'd say such sarcastic words, overwhelm me
with such good counsel that my spirits would collapse, my courage
disappear. I'd think, "Why don't I run away from school and go back home!
Why should I spoil my life fiddling with work that's beyond my capacity?
‘But after an hour or two the cloud of despair would clear away and I'd
resolve to study with all my might. I'd draw up a schedule on the spot. How
could I start work without first making an outline, working out a plan! In my
timetable the heading of play was entirely absent. Get up at the crack of
dawn, wash hands and face at six, eat a snack, sit down and study. From six
to eight English eight to nine arithmetic, nine to nine-thirty history, then
meal-time and afterwards off to school. A half hour's rest at 3.30 when I got
back from school, geography from four to five, grammar from five to six,
then a half hour's wall; in front of the hostel, six-thirty to seven English
composition, then supper, translation from eight to nine, Hindi from nine to
ten, from ten to eleven miscellaneous, then to bed.

But it’s one thing to draw up a schedule, another to follow it. It began to be
neglected from the very first day. The inviting green expanse of the
playground, the balmy winds, the commotion on the football field, the
exciting stratagems of prisoner's-base, the speed and flurries of volleyball
would all draw me mysteriously and irresistibly. As soon as I was there I
forgot everything: the life-destroying schedule, the books that strained your
eyes--I couldn't remember them at all. And then my big brother would have
an occasion for sermons and scolding. I would stay well out of his way, try
to keep out of his sight, come into the room on tiptoe so he wouldn't know.
But if he spotted me I'd just about die.

The yearly exams came round: my brother failed, I passed and was first in
my class. Only two year's difference was left between him and me. Now I
could be a little proud of myself and indeed my ego expanded. My brother's
sway over me was over. I began to take part freely in the games, my spirits
were running high. One day when I'd spent the whole morning playing stick-
ball and came back exactly at meal-time, he said, with all the air of pulling
out a sword to rush at me:

‘I see you've passed this year and you're first in your class, and you've got
stuck up about it. But my dear brother, even great men live to regret their
pride, and who are you compared to them? You must have read about what
happened to Ravan. Just to pass an exam isn't anything, the real thing is to
develop your mind. Understand the significance of what you read. Ravan
was master of the earth. Such kings are called Rulers of the World’. All the
kings of the earth paid taxes to him. Great divinities were his slaves, even
the gods of fire and water. But what happened to him in the end? Pride
completely finished him off, destroying even his name. There wasn't
anybody left to perform all his funeral rites properly. A man can commit any
sin he wants but he'd better not be proud. When he turns proud he loses both
this world and the next. You've just been promoted one grade and your
head's turned by it.

‘Don't assume that because I failed I'm stupid and you're smart. When you
reach my class you'll sweat right through lour teeth when you have to bite
into algebra and geometry and study English history--it's not easy to
memorize these king's names. There were eight Henrys--do you think it's
easy to remember all the things that happened in each Henry’s time? If you
write Henry the Eighth instead of Henry the Seventh you get a zero. There
were dozens of James, dozens of Williams and scores of Charles! You get
dizzy with them, your mind's in a whirl. Those poor fellows didn't have
names enough to go around. After every name they have to put second,
third, fourth and fifth. If anybody’d asked me I could have reeled off
thousands of names. And as for geometry, well God help you! If you write
ac binstead of a b c your whole answer is marked wrong. If you bring this
Perpendicular line down on that line it will be twice the base line. I ask you,
what's the point of that! If it isn't twice as long it's four times as long or half
as long, what do I care! But you've got to pass so you've got to memorize all.

‘They say, "Write an essay on punctuality no less than four pages long." So
now you open up your notebook in front of you, take your pen and [hate] the
whole business. Who doesn't know that punctuality's a very good thing! A
man's life is organized according to it, others love him for it and his business
prospers from it. How can you write four pages on something so trifling! Do
I need four pages for what I can describe in one sentence! It's not
economizing time, it's wasting it. We want a man to say what he has to say
quickly and then get moving. It's a contradiction for them to ask us to write
concisely. Write a concise essay on punctuality in no less than four pages.
All right! If four pages is concise then maybe otherwise they'd ask us to
write one or two hundred pages. Run fast and walk slow at the same time. Is
that all mixed up or isn't it! When you get into my class, you'll really take a
beating, and then you'll find out what's what. Just because you got a first
division this time you're all puffed up--so pay attention to what I say. What
if I failed, I'm still older than you, I have more experience of the world. Take
what I say to heart or you'll be sorry.

It was almost time for school, otherwise I don't know when this medley of
sermons would have ended. I didn't have much appetite that day. If I gota
scolding like this when I passed, maybe if I'd failed I would have had to pay
with my life. My brother's terrible description of studying in the ninth grade
really scared me. I'm surprised I didn't run away from school and go home.
But even a scolding like this didn't change my distaste for books a bit, I
didn't miss one chance to play. I also studied, but much less. Well, anyway,
just enough to complete the day's assignment and not be disgraced in class.
But the confidence I'd gained in myself disappeared and then I began to lead
a life like a thief5. Then it was the yearly exams again and it so happened
that once more I passed and my brother failed again. I hadn't done much
work; but somehow or other I was in the first division. I myself was
astonished. My brother had just about killed himself with work, memorizing
every word in the course, studying till ten at night and starting again at four
in the morning, and from six until 9.30 before going to school. He'd grown
pale. But the poor fellow failed again and I felt sorry for him. When he heard
the results he broke down and cried and so did I. My pleasure in passing was
cut by half. There was only one grade left between my brother and me. The
evil thought crossed my mind that if he failed just once more I'd be at the
same level as him and then what grounds would he have for lecturing me!
But I violently rejected this unworthy idea. After all, he'd scolded me only
with the intention of helping me. At the time it was really bad, but maybe it
was only as a result of his advice that I'd passed so easily and with such
good marks.

Now my brother had become much gentler toward me. Several times when
he found occasion to scold me he did it without losing his temper. Perhaps
he himself was beginning to understand that he no longer had the right to tell
me o~-or at least not so much as before. My independence grew. I began to
take unfair advantage of his toleration, I half started to imagine that I'd pass
next time whether I studied or not, my luck was high. As a result, the little
I'd studied before because of my brother, even that ceased. I found a new
pleasure in flying kites and now I spent all my time at the sport. Still, I
minded my manners with my brother and concealed my kite-flying from
him. In preparation for the kite tournament I was secretly busy solving such
problems as how best to secure the string and how to apply the paste mixed
with ground glass in it to cut the other fellows’ kites off their strings. I didn't
want to let my brother suspect that my respect for him had in any way
diminished.

One day, far from the hostel, I was running along like mad trying to grab
hold of a kite. A whole army of boys came racing out to welcome it with
long, thick bamboo rods. Nobody was aware who was in front or in back of
him. Suddenly I collided with my brother, who was probably coming back
from the market. He grabbed my hand and said angrily, ‘Aren't you ashamed
to be running with these ragamuffins after a one-paisa kite;' Have you
forgotten that you're not in a low grade any more! You're in the eighth now,
one behind me. A man’s got to have some regard for his position, after all.

‘I'm sorry to see you have so little sense. You're smart, there's no doubt of
that, but what use is it if it destroys your self-respect? You must have
assumed, ‘I’m just one grade behind my brother so now he doesn't have any
right to say anything to me." But you're mistaken. I'm five years older than
you and even if you come into my grade today that difference of five years
between us not even God--to say nothing of you--can remove. I'm five years
older than you and always will be. The experience I have of life and the
world you can never catch up with even if you get an M.A. and a D.Litt. and
even a Ph.D. Understanding doesn't come from reading books. Our mother
never passed any grade and Dad probably never went beyond the fifth, but
even if we studied the wisdom of the whole world mother and father would
always have the right to explain to us and to correct us. Not just because
they're our parents but because they'll always have more experience of the
world. Maybe they don't know what kind of government they've got in
America or how many constellations there are in the sky, but there are a
thousand things they know more about than you or me. God forbid, but if I
should fall sick today then you'd be [at your wit's end]. You wouldn't be able
to think of anything except sending a telegram to Dad. But in your place he
wouldn't send anybody a telegram or get upset or be all flustered. First of all
he'd diagnose the disease himself and try the remedy; then if it didn't work
he'd call some doctor. But you and I don't even know how to make our
allowance last through the month. We spend what father sends us and then
we're penniless again. But as much as you and I spend today, Dad's
maintained himself honourably and in good reputation the greater part of his
life and brought up a family on half of it. So brother, don't be so proud of
having almost caught up with me and being independent now. Ill see that
you don't go off the track. If you don't mind, then (showing me his fist) I can
use this too. I know you don't like hearing all this.
I was thoroughly shamed by this new approach of his. I had truly come to
know my own insignificance and a new respect for my brother was born in
my heart. With tears in my eyes, I said, 'No, no, what you say is completely
true and you have the right to say it.' My brother embraced me and said, 'T
don't forbid you to fly kites. I'd like to too. But what can I do? If I go off- the
track myself then how can I watch out for you! That's my responsibility.’
Just then by chance a kite that had been cut loose passed over us with its
string dangling down. A crowd of boys were chasing after it. My brother is
very tall and leaping up he caught hold of the string and ran at top speed
toward the hostel and I ran close behind him.

Nadan Dost

A bird had laid eggs just above the cornice in Keshav's house. Both
Keshav and his sister, Shyama, would watch the bird intently, as it flew back
and forth. First thing every morning, the two would come and stand in front
of the cornice, rubbing their eyes, barely awake. The pleasure they drew
from seeing the two birds was so great that they even forgot about the joys
of milk and jalebi. Numerous questions rose in their minds: How big were
the eggs! What colour were they? How many! What did they eat! How
would the chicks come out of them? What is the nest like! But there was
nobody around to answer their questions. Ma had no time from the
housework and Babuji from his books. The two children had to comfort
themselves by asking and answering each other.

Shyama: 'Tell me, Bhaiya, will the chicks fly away as soon as they come
out of the eggs?’

"No, Silly: Keshav would reply, proud as a scholar. 'First they have to grow
wings. How would the poor things fly without wings!’

Shyama: "What would the poor bird feed her little ones?' This was a tricky
question for even Keshav to answer.
A couple of days went by and the children’s curiosity increased. They were
eager to see the eggs. They were certain they had hatched by then. The
question of what the chicks would eat now weighed heavily on their minds.
Where would the poor bird find enough grain to feed her brood! The chicks
were sure to starve to death.

This thought left the siblings very anxious. They decided to scatter some
grain on the cornice for the bird to pick. Shyama said happily, 'Oh! Then the
bird won't have to fly anywhere in search of food, will she?'

‘Oh no!' said Keshav .'Why would she?'

‘But won't the chicks be really hot up there?’ a new worry crossed
Shyama's mind.

Keshav had not thought of this problem until then. "Yes!" he said. "They are
probably dying of thirst up there. There is no shade above them even.

It was finally decided that a makeshift roof would be erected above the
nest. The proposal for a bowl of water and some grain of rice was also
approved.

Both children began to work in earnest. Shyama quietly brought some rice
from the clay pot. Keshav secretly emptied the stone bowl of its oil,
scrubbed it clean, and refilled it with water.

But where to get the cloth for the shelter? And how to make~ the roof stay
up without support? Keshav puzzled over the problem for a while before it
was finally resolved. 'Go and bring the garbage basket.., make sure Ma
doesn't see you.

‘But it's got a hole in the middle! Will it keep the sun out!'

‘First, bring the basket,’ Keshav said with slight irritation. 'T'll take care of
the hole.’ Shyama went running and returned with the basket. Keshav stuffed
the hole with some paper and rested the basket against the branch of a
nearby tree. 'See, how the shadow of the basket falls on the nest! The sun
can't get through now!’
Shyama thought admiringly how clever her brother was. It was the month
of summer. Babuji had gone to work. Having put both children to sleep, Ma
had lain down to rest. But the children were nowhere near sleeping. Eyes
shut, they held their breath and waited for the right moment. As soon as they
were sure Ma was asleep, they got up quietly, unlatched the door, and crept
out. Soon they were making preparations to safeguard the eggs. Keshav
brought a stool from the room, but it was still not high enough to reach the
cornice. He then brought a small bathing stool to place under the first and
gingerly climbed on top.

Shyama held the stool with both hands. Its uneven legs made it rather
wobbly, and it tipped slightly, whichever way the pressure increased. Only
Keshav knew what fear, what dread assailed him at that moment. He would
grab the cornice to steady himself, and scold Shyama under his breath, 'Hold
fast or I'll come down and beat you nicely: But poor Shyama’s attention was
taken up by the cornice. Time and again her mind veered in that direction,
and her grip on the stool slackened.

The moment Keshav's hands reached the cornice, the birds flew Away
Keshav saw some twigs scattered on the cornice, and three eggs lying on
them. There was no nest like the ones he had seen on trees. Shyama asked,
‘Can you see any chicks, Bhaiya?’

‘There are three eggs; the chicks haven't come out yet'

‘Show me, Bhaiya! How big are they?’

‘I will. But first bring some rags to lay under the eggs. The poor eggs are
lying on twigs and straw.’

Shyama ran out and returned with a piece of cloth torn out from an old
sari. Keshav leaned to take it from her, folded it a number of times to make
it into a cushion and placed it under the eggs.

‘I also want to see them, Bhaiya,’ Shyama pleaded.

"Yes, yes. I will show them to you. But first bring the basket so that

I can make a roof,’ replied Keshav.
Shyama handed the basket from below and said, 'Now you come down, it's
my turn.

Keshav rested the basket against the branch and said, 'Go, bring the water
and grain. Let me get down and then you can have a look.’

Shyama brought the bow] of water and rice too. Keshav placed them both
under the basket and climbed down softly. Shyama begged once again:
‘Bhaiya, help me climb up too so I can see!'

"You'll fall down.’
‘I won't fall down, Bhaiya! You hold the stool.’

"No, No, No, if you fall down, Ma will make chutney out of me. She will
accuse me of helping you up. What will come out of your seeing them,
anyway? Now the eggs are comfortable. When they hatch, we'll both look
after the chicks.

The two birds would approach the cornice only to quickly fly away again.
Keshav wondered if they were scared and he took away the stools. Shyama
was tearful. "You didn't show me: she complained. 'T'll tell Ma.’

Tl bash you if you tell Ma.’
‘Then why didn't you show me?’
‘And what if you had fallen down and broken your head?’

‘So what! Big deal! You just wait, I'll tell Ma.’ Just then the door opened
and Ma came out, shielding her eyes from the blazing sun. "What are you
two doing out there in the sun!’ she asked. "Who opened the latch? How
many times do I have to tell you not to come out in the afternoon?’

Keshav had opened the latch, but Shyama didn't say that to Ma. She was
scared that he might get a beating. Keshav was afraid that Shyama might
squeal. He hadn't shown her the eggs, and so didn't trust her. Whether
Shyama was silent out of love or because she was party to the crime is a
matter of some conjecture. Perhaps it was both.
Ma scolded them and took them both back inside the room. She latched the
door and started fanning them softly. It was only two o'clock in the
afternoon and the hot summer wind was blowing outside. Soon, the two
children were sleeping soundly.

Shyama woke up with a start at four o'clock. The door was unlatched. She
ran to the cornice, and looked up. There was no sign of the basket. She
chanced to look down, ran back to the room and shouted, 'Bhaiya, the eggs
have fallen down, the chicks have flown away.’

Keshav ran to the cornice and saw that the three egg; lay broken on the
floor. A slimy white and yellow liquid was oozing out of them. The bowl of
water was also lying upturned.

Keshav went pale and stared at the ground with gloomy eyes.

"Where have the chicks flown to?’ Shyama asked.

‘The eggs are broken,’ Keshav said sadly.

‘And where have the chicks gone?’

"Where do you think!’ he replied with some irritation. 'Can't you see the
white liquid coming out. It would have turned into chicks in a few days.

Ma shouted from behind, 'What are you two doing out in the sun?’
‘Ma! Ma! The eggs are broken,’ said Shyama.

"You must have fiddled with them,' said Ma angrily, looking at the broken
shells.

Now Shyama didn't pity her brother. He must not have put the eggs back
carefully enough so that they had rolled of~ He ought to be punished.

"He touched the eggs, Ma,’ said Shyama.
"Why?' Ma asked.

Keshav stood tongue-tied.
‘How did you reach there?’ Ma asked again.

‘He kept a stool on the bathing stool and climbed up,’ Shyama said.

"Weren't you holding the stool?’ Keshav charged.

"You told me to!’ replied Shyama.

"You are a grown-up boy, Keshav: said Ma. 'Don't you know that when
you touch birds' eggs they become tainted, and then the birds don't hatch

them anymore?’

‘So the birds dropped the eggs themselves!’ Shyama asked her mother
fearfully.

"What else would the birds do!’ Ma said. 'Keshav you have done a terrible
thing. Oh my God! You have taken three lives.’

Keshav looked pained. 'I only cushioned the eggs: he said quietly.

That made Ma laugh, but for quite some time after that Keshav was
pricked by a guilty conscience. In trying to protect the eggs, he had
destroyed them--this thought would even make him cry at times.

As for the two birds they were never to be seen there again.

Garib Ki Hai

In a village of Chandpur Munshi Ramsevak was a very rich man. He could
be seen every day seated on a broken bench under a neem tree within the
precincts of the open- I~ air small-pleas court. Nobody had ever seen him
presenting a brief before the tribunal or arguing a case; but everyone called
him ‘attorney’. Whenever he made his way to the open court the villagers
crowded after him. He was regarded by everyone with respect and trust, and
he was renowned for possessing the eloquence of the divine Saraswati
herself. But it was only maintaining a family tradition. He had no very great
income. His tea means of livelihood was provided by widows without family
and by old men with lots of money and little sense. The widows handed over
their money to him for safe- keeping and old men who feared their worthless
sons entrusted their wealth to him. But once any money went into his first it
forgot the way to come out again.

In the same village lived a Brahman widow named Munga. Her husband
had been a sergeant in the native Indian battalion in Burma and had died in
battle there. In view of his fine service, the government had bestowed a sum
of rupees 500 on her. Being a widow and times being hard, the poor creature
entrusted all her money to Ramsevak, and begging back tiny sums every
month she managed to eke out a living. Munshiji had carried out his duty for
several years now with full honesty. But when Munga had grown old
without any sign of dying and he realized that perhaps from the whole
amount she did not intend to leave even half to pay for her funeral expenses,
he said to her one day, 'Munga, are you going to die or aren't you! Or just
say straight out that you'll look after your own funeral fees. 'That day
Munga’'s eyes were opened, and she said, 'Give me back the full amount!
‘The account book was ready: not a pice of it remained according to the
book. She violently grabbed his hand and said, "You've taken 250 rupees of
mine but I won't let you keep a pice of it!’ But a poor widow's anger has little
effect. She didn't have any influence in the courts, she couldn't read or write
or keep accounts. To be sure, there was some hope in the panchayat, the
village council. The panchayat met, people gathered from several villages.
Munshi Ramsevak was ready and agreeable; he stood up in the council and
addressed the members: 'Friends! You are all noble and devoted to the truth.
I bow to you all. Iam grateful to the core to you for your generosity and
mercy, your charity and love. Do you people think I really took the money
of this unfortunate widow!

With one voice the councillors said, 'No, no! You couldn't do such a
thing!’

Munshiji said, ‘If you all agree that I've stolen her money, then there'll be
nothing left for me except to drown myself. I'm not a rich man, nor can I
take pride in being munificent. But thanks to my pen and to your kindness I
cannot call myself needy. Am I so petty as to steal a widow's money!’
The councillors were unanimous. 'No, no, you couldn't do such a thing!
The council acquitted him.

Munga heaved a sigh and, making the most of it, said to herself, 'If I'm not
to get it here, then all right, I won't, but I’ll get it back in heaven. There was
nobody now to help Munga or listen to her grieving. Whatever woes poverty
bestowed she had to bear them all. She was strong of body and if she had
wanted she could have worked hard. But from the day the panchayat gave its
judgment she swore she wouldn't work. Now she was obsessed with the
thought of her money. All day and all night, walking or sitting, she had only
one idea: to inveigh against Munshi Ramsevak.

Gradually her mind gave way. Bare-headed, bare-bodied, with a little
hatchet in her hand, she would sit in desolate places. She abandoned her hut
and was seen wandering around the ruins in a cremation ghat along the river
dishevelled, red-eyed, grimacing crazily, her arms and legs emaciated. When
they saw her like this people were frightened. Now no one teased her even
for fun. Whenever she came out in the village, women shut the doors of their
houses, men slunk away and children ran off screeching. But there was one
child who didn't run away and that was Munshilji’s son Ramgulam. The
village one-eyed and lame men hated the sight of him. He would Keep after
Munga, clapping his hands and taking the village dogs with him, until the
poor woman, utterly bewildered, would flee the hamlet. Having lost her
mind along with her money she had earned the title of the local mad-woman.
She would sit alone, talking to herself for hours, expressing her intense
desire to harm Ramsevak, and when her hatred reached its climax she would
turn her face toward Ramsevak's house and shriek the terrible words, 'T'll
drink your blood!’

Munshiji was a man of great courage and tenacity, but when he heard
Munga’'s awful words he was scared. We may not be afraid of human justice
but the fear of God's justice resides in every man's heart-Munga’'s dreadful
night-wanderings sometimes inspired such reflections in Ramsevak's mind,
and even more in his wife's. Nagin was a very shrewd woman. She advised
her husband about all his business dealings. She was as brilliant in speech as
he in writing. One midnight when Munshiji had gone to sleep, suddenly
Munga let out a shriek right on his doorstep and howled, 'T'll drink your
blood!’ Munshiji was electrified by her horrible peals of laughter. His legs
shook with fear, his heart thumped. Gathering up his courage with a great
effort he opened the door and woke Nagin.

The two of them tiptoed to the threshold and peeking from the door they
saw Munga's dim figure lying on the ground, they heard her panting.

The night passed. The door was shut but Ramsevak and Nagin spent the
hours sitting up. Munga could not get inside but who could stop her voice?
Her voice was the most terrible thing about her.

The news got around the village that Munga was squatting on Munshiji's
doorstep. The villagers took great delight in his embarrassment and loss of
face. Whole flocks of people gathered around at once. Little Ramgulam
didn't like this crowd and he got so angry with Munga that if he had had the
power he would have flung her into a well. Ramgulam collected the dung of
their cow in a pot and hung it at the poor woman. Some of it splashed on the
onlookers too. Munga was completely covered and the people hastily
retreated, saying, 'This is Munshi Ramgulam door where you can expect
such fine manners!’ Munshiji congratulated his son on this ingenious and
appealing way of getting rid of that good-for- nothing crowd. The whole
mob finally disappeared, but Munga wt on lying there exactly as before.
That night Munga neither ate nor drank anything and once again Munshiji
and Nagin lay awake until morning. By now Munga's howling and laughing
were heard much less frequently. The people of the household assumed that
the worst was over. As soon as it was daylight Munshiji opened the door and
saw Munga lying motionless. It is impossible to describe the sensation this
event produced in the village and the extent of Ramsevak's disgrace.
Whatever prestige he'd been able to maintain vanished. Munga had come to
die on his doorstep. She knew she could not accomplish much alive but dead
she could do a great deal.

Munshi Ramsevak was versed in law: according to the law he was
innocent. Munga had not died according to any legal instance, no example of
it could be found in the Indian Penal Code. Throughout the day Munshiji
and his wife consoled themselves with such reasoning. But as soon as it was
evening their rationalizing petered out. Fear took hold of them when
darkness fell. As the hour turned late this fear grew all the stronger. They'd
left the front door open by mistake and not one of them was daring enough
to get up and shut it. Finally Nagin took a lamp, Munshiji his axe and
Ramgulam the sickle, and the three of them, quaking and shrinking, went to
the door. After closing the door, the three of them went into the kitchen a
and began to cook something.

But Munga had got under their skins. Seeing their own shadow they'd
jump, sure it was Munga. It seemed to them that she was sitting in every
dark corner.

In the kitchen they had set several large clay pots for flour and pulse and
there were some old rags lying around too. Driven by hunger a mouse came
out looking for the grain.

The mouse crept under the rags with a rustling sound. The way those rags
were spread out they looked exactly like Munga’s skinny legs. When she
saw them Nagin jumped and let out a shriek. Losing his head completely
Munshiji sprang for the door and Ramgulam started running and got
entangled in his father's legs. Just then the mouse emerged and when they
saw it they recovered their wits.

After they'd eaten the three of them came into the bedroom. But even there
Munga did not leave them alone. They were talking, enjoying themselves.
But even in these diversions Munga's image refused to leave their minds.
The very slightest tap would startle them. If there was a rustling of leaves the
hair would stand up on all three of them

At midnight Nagin was startled from her sleep. It seemed to her chat
Munga, with her red eyes and sharp pointed teeth, was sitting on her chest.
Nagin screamed. She started running toward the courtyard like a
madwoman, and suddenly she fell senseless to the ground, sweating all over.
Munshiji had been awakened by her yell but he was so frightened he didn't
open his eyes. Like a blind man he felt his way to the door. After a long
while he found it and came into the courtyard. Nagin was lying on the
ground. Fear of Munga had killed her. While Munga lived she had always
feared Nagin’'s hissing. But sacrificing her own life, she could now take
Nagin's.

Having done away with Nagin, Munga was not going to leave Munshiji
alone. At every moment her image remained before his eyes. Wherever he
might be his mind always harked back to her.
Like a prisoner in solitary confinement, somehow or other he managed to
get through the next ten or twelve days. At the end of two weeks, his
mourning over, Munshiji changed his clothes and with his mat and satchel
went to the open court. Today his expression was a little brighter, today, he
thought, his clients would nock around him, they'd condole with him and
he'd shed a few tears. Then there would be an abundance of foreclosures,
settlements and mortgages and he'd be rolling in money. Full of these
thoughts he reached the court.

But there, instead of the abundance of mortgages and the flood of
foreclosures and the merry greetings of clients, he encountered the sandy
wastes of disappointment. He sat for hours with his satchel open but nobody
came near him, or even inquired about how he was. Not only were there no
new clients but very old ones, whose business Munshiji$ family had handled
for generations, today hid their faces from him. After wasting his whole day
at the court Munshiji went home, sunk in worry and disappointment. As
soon as he came close to the house Munga's image rose before him. He was
so nervous that when on opening the door two dogs, shut in by Ramgulam,
came rushing out he completely lost his wits, let out a shriek and fell
senseless to the ground.

What happened to Munshiji after this is not known. For several days
people saw him go to the court and come back drooping. After that he went
off to the shrine of Badrinath and was not seen for several months.

One day a sadhu came to the village--on his forehead ashes, locks long and
matted, a clay water pot in his hand. His countenance closely resembled
Ramsevak's and his speech also was not much different. He sat in meditation
beneath a tree. That night smoke rose from Ramsevak's house, the glow of a
fire was visible and then a burst of flame.

As for Ramgulam, when Munshiji disappeared he went off to live with an
uncle and stayed there a while, but no one there could put up with his ways.

One day he was digging up radishes in somebody's field. The owner gave
him a few slaps. This made him so angry that he went into the man's granary
and set it on fire. It burned down completely and thousands of rupees went
up in smoke. The police investigated and Ramgulam was arrested. For this
offence he is at present in the reformatory at Chunar.
the end
